OpenEJB - Container System                                   David Blevins
Getting Started Guide: GSG-2.2                                   July 2001


             Getting Started Guide -- Get the source: WinCVS


Abstract

  Getting involved in any Open Source project requires the source.  This 
  document guides you through the process of getting the OpenEJB 
  project source using the WinCVS command line client.

Table of Contents
   
  1   Introduction
  2   Get WinCVS
  2.1   What is CVS?
  2.2   What is WinCVS?
  2.3   Downloading WinCVS
  2.4   Installing WinCVS
  3   Configure WinCVS
  4   Login
  5   Checkout the source
  6   About cvs rights
  6.1   Checking in source files (committing)
  7   Other Resources


1   Introduction
  
  I don't normally use WinCVS ( I prefer the command line cvs), so bare 
  with me.  If anyone else has better instructions, please contribute 
  them.

2   Get WinCVS
  
  Before we go into getting the source, let's take a second to answer the 
  question, "What is CVS?".
  
2.1   What is CVS?

  The Concurrent Versions System (CVS) provides network-transparent source
  control for groups of developers.  CVS has four basic functions: 
  
    - Maintains a history of all changes made to each directory tree it 
      manages
    
    - Provides hooks to support process control and change control 
    
    - Provides reliable access to its directory trees from remote hosts 
      using Internet protocols 
      
    - Supports parallel development allowing more than one developer to
      work on the same sources at the same time 

  All the OpenEJB source code, documentation, and other files are in a CVS
  repository an ExoLab server.  To access the repository and download the 
  source code and other files, you need a cvs client.

2.2   What is WinCVS?

  WinCVS is a Graphical User Interafce (GUI) for the cvs command line 
  program.  Many people starting out with CVS prefer the GUI version 
  (WinCVS) as there are less dificulties intalling and learning it.  
  WinCVS also has support for Proxies, which is extremely important for 
  those individuals behind a firewall.

2.3   Downloading WinCVS

  Visit the WinCVS download page and get the latest build at:
  http://www.cvsgui.org/download.html

2.4   Installing WinCVS

  There is an InstallShield for WinCVS. Simply run the InstallShield and 
  follow the instructions.
  
3   Configure WinCVS

  Step 1.  Click on the "Admin" menu item, then select "Preferences". This 
  will bring you to a window titled "WinCVS Preferences", the "General" 
  tab should be selected.

  Step 2.  In the text box under "Enter the CVSROOT", type:
    :pserver:anoncvs@openejb.exolab.org:/cvs/openejb

  Step 3.  In the list under "Authentication", select:
    "passwd" file on the cvs server

  Step 4.  Click the "WinCVS" tab.

  Step 5.  In the text box under "HOME folder (where cvs stores your 
  passwords):", type:
    C:\

  NOTE: You may enter or browse for any valid directory.

  Step 6.  Click the "OK" button.
  
4   Login

  Step 2.  Click on the "Admin" menu item, then select "Login".  This will 
  bring you to a window titled "Password authentication"

  Step 3.  In the text box under "Enter the password", type:
    anoncvs

  Step 4.  Click the "OK" button.

5   Checkout the source

  Step 1.  Click on the "Create" menu item, then select "Checkout module".  
  This will bring you to a window titled "Checkout settings".

  Step 2.  In the text box under "Enter the module name and path on the 
  server", type:
    openejb

  Step 3.  In the text box under "Local folder to checkout to", type the 
  directory location where you want the sources to be downloaded. 
  For example:
    C:\myfavorite\opensource\project

  Step 4.  Click the "OK" button.  Files should start downloading to your 
  local directory.

  Done.

6   About cvs rights

  When you do a checkout, a copy of the newest files in the repository is 
  downloaded to a directory on your local machine. This is called a 
  working copy and is yours to play with, edit, or manage as you see fit. 
  Changes made to your working copy do not become a permanent part of the 
  repository until they are checked in. 

  When files are checked into the repository, they are uploaded from the 
  working copy on your machine to the CVS repository on the ExoLab server.
  The files then become a permanent part of the repository and can be   
  checked out by anyone. 

6.1   Checking in source files (committing)

  Checking in files, known as committing, requires special access which is
  granted on an individual basis. If you would like to contribute changes 
  to files or new files, you can email the files to the openejb-dev 
  mailing list for review. 

7   Other Resources

  Documentation for WinCVS at cvsgui.org:
	http://www.cvsgui.org/doc.html